Hello everyone and welcome to this lecture.
The biggest lecture I've been able to learn about functions built in functions we learned about lambda
expressions as well.
And we've been able to use the map as well function to just you know perform a certain operation on
an entire list.
In just one shot in this lectures I'm going to show you kind of an additional kind of advanced topic
so-called filter which is simply used to apply specific
kind of condition on an on an entire list.
OK.
So let's take a look at what you mean by this.
I'm going to say OK let's define my lists and let's call it for instance 10 here would define it 50
define 40 three 9 14 2 and 6 shift enter go.
And what we could do then wanted to let's say pick even numbers.
Only when I wanted to pick only even numbers from here.
Obviously not by using for loops and all that.
I just wanted to use filter function to see I'm going to do that when I say okay out which is oh my
output equals two.
I'm going to say okay.
And that's how we write it.
When I say filter all right.
And what I could do we're going to use lambda expression too soon to say lambda and what lambda we're
going to do.
I'm going to say okay X if you take X All right.
Please turn back if it's only even No.
So I'm gonna say Okay I have to put in a condition here so we're going to say if X divided by two and
you're paying the remainder was equal to zero.
Okay.
That should simply like say summarize the actual condition.
So he what I'm saying.
Okay.
When I'm saying filter.
All right.
Using the lambda expression if you take x.
If you find that X divided by two is equal to zero.
Okay.
Return simply X..
That's all what it is when we're applying filters simply amend.
So what we could do I have to here to pass along but obviously my list which is my listing here.
All right.
Okay.
The last point is I have to cast whatever I'm gonna get out of it.
I have to cast it simply convert it into a list format.
So if the script enter here we go for take a look at.
Out here we go.
So now I ended up with all the even numbers 10 50 40 14 26 which basically was kept three and was kept
nine as well.
Okay.
All right.
Looks great.
So again let's take a look.
I know it's a little bit confusing let's take a look at another example.
Let's assume that I wanted for instance to let's say have a list of ages.
So I have for example kind of this list of ages K 5 15 and so on.
And for example you wanted to create kind of using lists using filter using lambda to allow only people
who are only at an age 21 or greater then than OK.
So I wanted to go into that list pick people only what age 21 plus or 21 22 24 3 9 3 5 and so on.
Let's see how can we do that using filter and lambda.
So going to say OK out equals two I'm going to say lists.
I know I need to cast it anyway so let's define it as lists so I can use filter.
And then I can use lambda expression and the landing and I think if the X the condition is if X was
greater than or equal to any one that's my condition.
Right.
And simply here in within the lambda expression I need to pass along simply my list H on the score H.
My apologies.
It was my list underscore 8 which is my list in here all right.
OK.
Looks good.
Let's run it and let's take a look at out.
Here we go.
So now we're able to attain only 21 22 24 39 and 30.
All right.
Now it's time for a quick challenge.
What I want you guys to do is to simply take the exact same list and only return people to straight
the exact same you know pretty much exact same or operation but only return people who are between the
age of 20 and between the age of 25 only.
OK.
All right so 20 20 and 25.
Please go ahead positive view and I'll see you guys after the challenge.
All right.
I hope you guys were able to figure out what the challenge will ask us to do is to simply go in here
and only select the ages that are greater than 20 and less than 25.
So simply put I'm just gonna think the exact same condition pretty much but instead of twenty one I
make it 20 but I need to add kind of an additional condition so I say OK.
And if you find X was actually to do that.
So if X was greater than equal 20 and if X was less than or equal to 25.
These are kind of to my condition that I wanted to satisfy and if I do that if I take a look at out
here we go.
We ended up with 21 22 24 which is simply all the ages between 20 and 25.
All right.
And that's pretty much what I have for this lecture.
I hope you guys enjoyed it.
Now you guys are pretty much ready to do the exercises.
We have tons of exercises for you which comes to functions.
Keep it up and it should be really proud of your newly acquired programming skills.
Best of luck and we'll see you guys in the next lecture.